This is probably one of my favorite
skills that I have. And what this does
is it's basically when I'm doing things
like reviewing PRDS, product specs,
working on design docs, discussing
feature prioritization, that PRD has the
R language. It has our ideas, our
principles, and the structure of it ends
up looking a lot more like the types of
things that if you've been in the room
at factory for a year, you would say
instead of just what like Opus 4.5 is
randomly opining on.
>> This is amazing, dude. Maybe you can
share this with me privately or
something. You only hire product
engineers. Are you gonna hire like a
regular PM at some point?
>> I think what regular PM means has
totally changed. Like we have an AE
who's the number three Droid user at the
company. He's in sales. We're about to
publish some interesting work about how
Droid basically has passed the threshold
of what we call like self-improving.
All right, welcome everyone. My guest
today is co-founder of Factory, a
popular AI coding agent called Joy that
works with any terminal or ID. today
will show us how great engineers
actually work with AI agents but gave us
a live demo and we'll also talk about uh
the crazy competitive AI coding space
and what actually has product market fit
in that space. So welcome sir.
>> Hey thanks so much for having me. I'm
really excited to be here and uh there's
nothing more I love chatting about than
software development agents.
>> All right cool. Yeah so maybe before
getting into the demo you can can you
tell about factory and droid and kind of
what makes it different from other AI
coding tools? Yeah, totally. And you
know, factory, we've been around for
actually a surprising length. We've been
we're about two and a half years old.
And when we first started, you know, the
world was not really comfortable with
the concept of letting an agent just,
you know, call it YOLO mode or whatever
on your computer. Uh and so we said we
really need to orient around building
products that will work in enterprise
environments and build products that
made you know VPs of engineering of a
10,000 person organization feel
comfortable. And so we set out uh on a
long journey to build these AI systems.
We call it Droid the sort of core agent.
Our product doesn't stop at the terminal
or the IDE or the web or desktop. Of
course we have those surfaces. Uh, but
we also provide tooling that helps you
analyze your entire company's code bases
to determine what's stopping agents from
being successful. We give you ROI
analytics. We give you enterprise
controls. So, there's sort of a lot of
layers that make us feel maybe like the
full enterprise solution to software
development agents.
>> Got it. Yeah. It's smart that you guys
focus on enterprise from day one because
I question the product market feel on
the consumer side. So, smart. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Totally. I there there there's a I
think a lot of optionality that people
have like there's a million different
coding agents and some of them are
hackable some of them are not. Uh I
think the people who care about quality
have found their way to us. Uh but if
you're like cost optimizing or something
else uh you know you you may just go
with a subsidized plan or an open tool.
>> Awesome. Let's build something live.
What do you think we should build?
>> No, I I I love this idea. And I was
thinking that maybe we would uh start
sharing my screen. And I was thinking
maybe we could uh like granola and
actually record some of our back and
forth on maybe a prototype of some form,
a web app. What do you think? Is there a
specific direction you wanted to take
this?
>> Um yeah, we can just build a simple web
app and maybe you can use some like, you
know, best practices of using Droid. You
can show us how things work. Yeah.
>> Yeah, totally. Then maybe what I'd
suggest is and I'm going to pop this
open, hide this, share my screen, and
show this granola transcript that I have
right here. What we can do is we can
build out an app that showcases like a
simple fast reading application. You
know, I don't know if you've seen this
viral thing on Twitter where, you know,
you have like a book and you upload a
bunch of documents and then it lets you
read really quickly, like speed readad
basically. Sound like interesting?
>> Yeah, that sounds good. Yeah.
>> Cool. So, typically what I recommend to
folks is when you want to use Droid, you
open up either the terminal or our IDE
extension. Um, here I'm just going to
use the terminal and I'm using Ghosty.
Uh, I love how quick it is. And
basically, you know, we have a very
simple interface. Um, not very simple,
but a fairly simple interface that lets
you type in. Uh, if you've ever used a
terminal based agent, you'll have all
the bells and whistles. We support
things like skills, MCP, uh, you know,
hooks, etc. You can select your model.
Um and I think one of the cooler parts
about factory is that you know we
support nearly every frontier model uh
as well as uh different levels of what
we call autonomy which is basically how
much do you want to give the agent the
ability to operate in its environment.
Uh do you want it do you want to approve
every action it takes? Do you want only
readonly commands reversible or
everything? I'm going to turn it on high
autonomy here and I'm just going to
paste this transcript. This is like the
transcript from granola that we just had
where I suggested we do this. This is
something we do all the time. Um, let's
build a prototype for this in this
directory, please.
>> And I'm just going to paste it. And
couple things that I think are
interesting about Droid. Um, you're
going to see it plan, read, list
directories. Uh, you know, make this
really simple for you to sort of see
what is it actually doing at a high
level as it works. Um, but I think when
when you actually go under the hood, I
think that where Droid shines the most
is on things like basically long running
tasks when you want it to run for not
just a minute or 10 minutes, but really
like an hour. It's too hard to show in a
quick podcast. But we've done a lot
around things like compaction or
compression and prompt caching to make
the experience feel really nice.
And dude, I just want to mention one
thing like um the fact that I can just
like I think I use tab or something to
pick like allow all commands versus
allow some commands like that that has
much better UI than like um you know
like I love clock but like the default
experience in clock ho where it asks you
for permission for everything. It it it
sucks man like like I don't I don't have
I don't like sitting around trying to
grant it permissions you know.
>> Totally. I think that there's actually
like a real like security and risk thing
of if you give people two options like I
have to approve everything manually or
dangerously run YOLO mode. Um here you
can see Droid is actually opening the
browser for me autonomously. Um and it's
jumped in and uh it's basically testing
out uh you can see it's taking
screenshots and QAing uh the work that
it just did. So it's going to determine
you know did I adequately test what the
user is doing? I don't know you can see
here uh
>> is that is that using playrite or or is
just like some native thing that you
built?
>> This is using Chrome DevTools. Uh but uh
by the time that this podcast airs we've
actually made this native. So uh it the
the Droid for everybody will be able to
you know browse interact um and see it's
basically confirmed that it's done. Um
and it gave me a little alert and I can
iterate. So, uh, I think most people
who've used a tool like this are
familiar with this workflow, but I think
that once you actually jump in, a lot of
the nice quality of life things like the
ability to create skills, manage your
skills in one place, an MCP registry
that contains most of the major tools
that you'll use like linear, notion,
etc. like one click away. Um, really
just make for a much nicer experience
when you're developing. Um, so if you
want a strong multimodel harness, I
think Droid is basically the like
leading option there.
>> This episode is brought to you by
Linear. When engineers use tools like
cursor, clock code, and codecs, a lot of
work happens invisibly. Someone can go
from a bug report in Slack to a shipped
fix without creating any record of what
happened outside of the code editor. And
that's fine for speed, but it makes
coordination harder as you scale. Linear
integrates with the very best agent
coding tools directly like cursor and
codeex. That way anyone can see what an
agent is working on and who assigned
them to the task. You get the speed of
agents without losing visibility across
the team. Product teams at OpenAI ramp
and block are all using Linear to
collaborate with AI agents. And I use
LIR myself to run my creator business.
So check it out at linear.app/agents.
That's linear.app/agents. app/ aents.
Now, back to our episode. It's typical
best practice to like write like like a
little plan or spec first before you do
this thing. But in this case, I guess
like our spec is just a granola
conversation.
>> Exactly. And and but what I recommend is
we actually have something called spec
mode. Um and maybe the nuance here is
basically and you can do this by just
hitting shift tab. Um, the nuance here
is that when you're in spec mode, I'm
gonna say, let's make this a more fully
fleshed out product. What you're going
to see is that in spec mode, a lot of
agents call this planning mode. Uh,
where you get a plan for what to do. Our
view is that a plan is a little
different from a spec. Like a spec is
like what should be built and a plan is
how you build it. We think the agent
should figure out how. You shouldn't
like be in plan mode. you should be in
spec mode where you define basically
here it's asking me questions about like
what input sources should be able to
use. I'm going to say all of the above.
What reading enhancement features would
you like? Maybe chunk mode. Um and local
storage, you know, any additional
features. I could type my own answer
here and say let's definitely have a
party mode button.
So, I've answered all of its questions.
Uh and it's going to propose a
specification. Uh, and when it proposes
the spec to me, I have a bunch of
different options like I can, uh, choose
to edit it. I can open this up. Um,
you'll see that this is saved as an
actual document. Um, and so if I choose
to manually edit, it'll actually open VS
Code for me so that I can jump in here
and look through this spec, read through
it, edit it, and after I've edited, I'm
just going to delete party mode.
>> Let's go ahead. You'll see that Droid
will pull that spec in, reread the
changes I've made, and kick off a plan
to get to go further.
>> Got it. Got it. And this is after it's
already built the initial version,
right? Or or is like um so it's kind of
get better.
>> Yeah,
>> exactly. So, we basically just speced
out like a whole new plan of how to of
how to work.
>> Got it. Yeah, this is awesome.
>> So, as it's iterating, you're going to
see it's changing stuff. So, obviously,
it's not going to work. Uh, React's hot
reload is is obviously awesome because
it's going to keep hot reloading. But
the moment that it completes its work,
you can see it's asking for permission
as it operates. I'm actually going to
shift it to high autonomy so it stops
asking me permission.
And I'm going to just let it cook.
>> Oh, so you can actually shift it like
have while it's actually working.
>> Yeah, I can shift uh in and out of spec
mode. I can shift the autonomy levels. I
can actually change the model mid
session. So if I want to start and plan
in uh for example Opus but then execute
with GPT 5.2 um these are all settings
that you can turn on or
>> if you just want to switch mid session
you can.
>> Got it. I I do think yeah I do think
being able to pick the model is
important like I guess I I kind of I
mean I I kind of get comp access to a
lot of this stuff. So I don't think
about cost but like you know if you're
running an enterprise like the cost
really matters right because Opus is
really is is pretty expensive. you know,
you don't want to run run up for
everything.
>> Yeah.
>> Yep. Totally. Uh and I think that
there's also a lot of things that people
are discovering now, which is uh for
example, GPT 5.2 codeex is extremely
diligent. It's very good at validating
its own work. Uh and it will run for a
long period of time, but it it doesn't
have the same like sort of highlevel
planning intelligence that you know,
fairly subjectively, although we have
some eval to back this up, Opus 4.5 has.
And so there's a great way to sort of
get the best of both worlds in agnostic
model agnostic harnesses because you can
actually say look opus will plan and GPT
5.2 will execute. Um and that combo
actually outperforms either alone. Um so
a lot of what we try to do is actually
make decisions like these way easier for
you um by setting sensible defaults
giving you a really solid experience and
of course the cost thing matters a lot
for people. So being able to switch to a
cheaper model or a more expensive model
tends to be like a a pretty pleasant
experience. So do you have any uh like
highle tips to like how would a real
engineer use this versus like a you know
like a vibe coder right like you know
>> totally I think that probably one of the
things that's most you know optimized
for real engineering scenarios is Droid
has a lot of uh both like system
injections prompting as well as harness
level modifications to really heavily
encourage validation of its work. uh we
use this word validation a lot but our
view is that agents are you know
fundamentally bottlenecked by the
ability to validate their own work like
Chrome DevTools is a great example of
sort of QAing and validating that the
change it made actually visibly it makes
sense um
>> code has tons of these validators you
have uh llinters unit tests type
checkers I don't know if you can see
that it's continuously building running
dev uh you know linting type checking in
this like flow right here uh the Droid
is working. Um, we think that we
basically have done this probably to a
higher degree than most, which is a big,
you know, benefit for the actual product
experience that people have. Um, so here
it's going to open this up. You you can
see it taking control. Um, we've added
some of the things that we mentioned,
the ability to add content, full screen,
etc.
>> Yeah. So, I don't have to remember to do
all this do all this testing manually.
You just you just do it for for me each
time I ask you to do something like
build something new.
>> Exactly. like the Droid will actually
take screenshots of your product. It
will QA it for you. It'll click through.
It'll list console messages like are
there any errors that popped up in the
console. Um this is a lot of stuff that
we think, you know, as somebody who is
in product or somebody who is in data
science, um or even just someone who's
not a front end or full stack engineer,
if you're building prototypes or you're
building, you know, straight up
endto-end real work as a production
engineer, obviously you can know these
things and everyone knows it's good to
do them. But when your agent is the one
that sort of says, "No, I I actually
need to validate my work to move to the
next step," the quality of the output is
way higher. So I think a lot of people
sort of when they say like Droid like
subjectively feels really good, what
they're actually pointing towards is
this idea that we validate the work very
rigorously. Um, and it doesn't really
come at that much of a cost of spend or
tokens because it's sort of the measure
twice, cut once thing. A lot of agents
are measuring once, cutting once,
measuring again, cutting again. Uh, and
for us, it's like just validate the work
iteratively and you'll get a much higher
result.
>> Got it, dude. Let's let's check out the
app, man. Uh, so what does this thing
actually do?
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. So, so this is a this is a speed
reading app uh that basically lets you,
you know, go through and I think the
idea is that it helps you maintain
comprehension as it works. I I've
noticed that, uh, it's doing two-word
chunks. Uh, so what I actually want to
do is I wanna see if I can change it to
one word chunk. And so the idea is you
can sort of read this as it goes. You
know, it
>> Got it. Got it. Got it. So it reads much
faster than having like a huge
paragraph.
>> Yeah. Exactly. So it's it's just sort of
like a a play app that you'd have. But I
think that the thing that's sort of fun
about this when you full screen is I
don't know if you can tell, but this is
actually like already stylized. We have
like a public website um yeah where
we've got a lot of content. One thing
that I like is that Droid is really good
at picking up your codebase's existing
styling. So like this is our brand
colors. These are our sort of like
similar components to to our actual
design system. Um you know the modules
have our borders, the the font is ours.
Um and I think that what a lot of people
underestimate is that building stuff
that's in your design system doing it
well uh is actually fairly difficult.
Um, and so if you want to have like
vibecoded things that just zero to one a
random, you know, code base, that's
fine. Droid is fairly good at that. But
when you have an existing codebase like
our factory public web here and you want
to make modifications to it, you want to
build a new app, you want to keep
consistency of your design system, Droid
can do that quite well.
>> And and I didn't have to like you didn't
build like a skill or something like
design system skill. It it just does it
by reading the code.
>> No. Yeah. Like if you look back, there's
no skill being invoked. It totally could
though. If you if you wanted to have a
skill for your design system, you you
could. But I think that that's actually
what's cool about Droid is that at the
beginning it does this grounding step,
right? Where it's actually reading
through. It's looking at different
layouts. It's looking at our CSS. It's
looking at different pages and it's
using that to sort of ground its its UI.
>> All right, dude. Well, let me ask you
this. I'm going to throw you a
curveball. So, there there is like all
kinds of crazy terms, right? There's
like skills, there's hooks, there's sub
aents. Yeah, this is just like this is
like for for someone who's new, this is
super confusing, man. Like like when do
you actually use all the other stuff?
Can or can you just like go back and
forth with AI and just build something
like
>> Yeah, stuff.
>> Yeah, I I think that this is such a
hotly uh a hot contested debate. We have
full support of all of them, right? So
sub agents, skills, mcp hooks,
slashcomands
uh and like a global config that lets
you manage all this stuff. Um, yeah,
what what we've seen is that
>> clearly skills in MCP have by far the
highest usage. Um, and I think that this
answer changes based on who you are. If
you're a solo developer, I think that
there's a lot of opportunity for you to
like sort of build your own custom
workflow with these things. My personal
opinion is that we get a lot of mileage
by just having a couple of skills that
matter for things like data engineering,
for things like building repeatable
components and integrations. Uh, and I
have a skill and a lot of the people on
our team have a skill for like writing
and like language that matches their
voice when they want to use it to
generate content. In terms of MCP, there
are a ton of them. Uh, and obviously we
have a registry for things like Linear,
Notion, Axiom, Data Dog, Century, etc.
Um my view is that skills might be just
a better way to manage like integrations
context. Um and so if you can get a
skill for a given capability that might
be better than MCP. Um and hooks I think
are really good if you are the type of
person that loves to make their tool
like super custom. But from enterprises,
what we've seen is that enterprises will
have like a couple of people focus in on
making skills, MCPs, tools for their
whole organization or for big uh you
know teams in their org. Um and because
factory is the only offering that lets
you actually from an enterprise
perspective manage who has what
customizations from the user team and
enterprise level. Um, I think that a lot
of power users end up be getting
converted over to factory because it's
just easy to get everyone in your 10,000
person company outfitted with a skill
that meaningfully changes their dev
productivity on a daily basis.
>> Okay. So, there's like a permission
system or something.
>> Yeah. Permissions and also just shared
uh access to a ton of different skills,
tools, MCP at the enterprise level.
>> Can you and you can tell me no on this,
but can you actually show us a skill
like can you show me your writing skill
or what whatever skill you want to show?
Yeah, totally.
>> Like I have uh a couple here that that
are live on my like prod like uh change
log uh code canvas product management
writing factory blog posts. So like if I
were to go uh and actually
>> let's No, let's look at the product
management one because there's a bunch
of PMs.
>> Yeah, of course. Um yeah, can you open
my product management skill uh file in
VS Code? I could probably do that
myself, but I use Droid for everything.
So, it's much easier to just say to
Droid like, "Open that file, please."
Um,
>> and so there we go. Um,
>> this is uh I actually think that a lot
like this is probably one of my favorite
skills that I have.
>> And what this does is it's basically
when I'm doing things like reviewing
PRDS, product specs, working on design
docs, discussing feature prioritization.
I'll zoom in so it's easier to read. And
what I've done is we have a bunch of
source of truth documents. So we have
our product principles. We have a core
value prop what we call the 11star
experience which is taken from Airbnb.
This is an awesome framework for
thinking about you know basically Brian
Chesy was like you know a fivestar
Airbnb experience you know you know they
roll out the red carpet it's great you
get the Airbnb they give you the keys
they give you a bunch of cool things to
do.
>> Yeah
>> that's the fivestar experience. What's
six-star? What's eight? What's 11?
Right. And 11 is like Elon Musk
personally takes you on the rocket ship
yacht and you go to Mars and and so what
what this framework does is it lets you
say where are we today and what is the
baseline expectation of an amazing
experience in your product that is the
bar. Now what comes after that? What
what comes when you break that bar? And
what's cool about factories is in the
last two and a half years, we have
slowly moved like our original 11star
experience or at least the sevenstar
that we had two years ago is now our
fivestar experience. So like it's just
the baseline expectation of what wasn't
even possible in the f like maybe at
some point in the future this will work
is now what we expect the average user
to have in our product. Um so it's a
really cool framework. Yeah. So, you
know, anyway, tons of docs, product
positioning, how we build,
prioritization frameworks, templates.
Um, and what you do is you basically
pull all these notion docs together.
Factory has a native notion integration,
so you don't need the MCP. Uh, you just
integrate it for your whole company and
it handles permissions. Um, so it'll
pull all that data and then it'll use
that for things like PRD reviews,
guiding the language, um, and has a
couple of examples.
>> But, bro, like, um, which one like I
guess it calls different not because
this is like probably a lot of notion
dogs, right? So does it call different
notion docs based on which uh what you
want to do like build a PRD or
>> Yeah, exactly. So so basically like the
the what what this is is you can think
of it as like a map almost of our most
important documents and these are like
shared sources of truth, right? Uh and I
would if if our company was purely
people in GitHub, I would probably put
these in markdown
>> uh in GitHub, but we have folks that use
notion like our AEES, our ops, our uh
you know most of all of our product team
is actually their product engineers. So
they're all engineers. Uh but but we
pull all this stuff together and then
what happens is based on what you're
working on. So if I say like I would
like to write a PRD about this new
thing, that PRD has the R language. It
has our ideas, our principles. Um and
the structure of it ends up looking a
lot more like the types of things that
if you've been in the room at factory
for a year, you would say instead of
just what like Opus 4.5 is randomly
opining on.
>> This is amazing, dude. Dude, you you got
maybe you can share this with me
privately or something. I can copy this
thing so I can make
>> Oh, yeah, for sure. I' I' I'd be happy
to. We can maybe attach it to the vid
and like share it with the anyone who's
listening.
>> Yeah, that would be amazing. I've always
wanted to build a product management
skill and um you mentioned one thing
that's a little bit innocuous, but I
think has a big impact. You mentioned
that you only you only hire product
engineers. So, are you going to hire
like a regular PM at some point or like
you want people with both engineering
and PM?
>> Yeah. Well, I think it's funny because
like I think what regular PM means has
totally changed. Uh so so my my view
here is that what we and it's compounded
by the fact that what we build is a
software development agent. So even our
AEES are like like we have an AE who's
the number three Droid user at the
company. So he's in sales, right? Like
but he is still the number three user of
Droid. He does everything from Droid. He
does customer research. He puts together
skills for uh analyzing customer usage
data to determine how he can help uh
provide better experiences for his
customers. He uses it to track his deal
flow. He has Salesforce connectors. So
everything in his life is operated by
Droid. Our view is that I think that a
lot of people underestimate this aspect
of of software development agents. Uh
and I think it's because of maybe like
the terminal dominant UI. uh but you
know our view at factory is that
software development agents are
basically the next generation of general
AI systems and so it's no secret
software development agents are
advancing basically everybody's
capabilities not just software engineers
but u you know ask anyone at cursor
anthropic or openai they'll all admit
that most people at the company are
using their software development agent
uh for productivity gains um and so it's
quite clear that for us what it means to
be really any role has changed a lot. If
you have no experience as a software
engineer, you can still be in product at
factory. That's totally fine. But I
think you definitely need to have a
drive most of your workflows with AI um
if you want to work in any role at
factory.
>> Dude, I I I think and your AE probably
doesn't know how to read like code
syntax and stuff like that, right?
>> He's a bit of an outlier, so he he
definitely does. However, most of our
AES are are definitely not they're not
in VS Code. They're not trying to live
and operate their life via the terminal,
but they still use Droid
>> because because I think it's just like a
higher level of abstraction like like
it's almost like engineering like you
need to understand some of the technical
stuff, but like you're basically like
trying to talk and plan this stuff out
in English, right? It's not like you got
to know about for loops and while you
know all this kind of crap any anymore,
you know?
>> Yeah, 100%. Yeah. I I think that it it's
funny because we were just talking about
this internally. I think people think of
the terminal as sort of this destination
or place because they're used to
thinking of the IDE as this destination.
Um, and and what I mean by that is like
the IDE contains this encompassing view
of all the information that's helpful
when you're coding, but that also builds
walls around the IDE as a concept,
right? It it may be easier for a
software developer to operate inside
those walls, but it really sucks you in.
And you know, you open the IDE full
screen, it's got all these crazy
screens, debuggers, it's got 50 buttons.
Um, and this complexity is definitely
intentional because it's a power tool,
but it changes how you interact with it.
Um, and our view is that, you know, the
terminal or a native app for agents uh
is not necessarily a destination in and
of itself. It's not your full screen.
It's more of an overlay. It's this thing
that that lives on top of the rest of
your computer. Uh, and
>> sometimes, you know, something that you
keep open all the time, something that
has access to the file system, the apps,
the desktop, you know, I think that this
is a better indicator of where the
future is going. Like these software
development agents are just general
computer use agents. Uh, and so most
people who work on computers could
benefit from having a little overlay in
the upper leftand corner of their
computer that they can talk to and
basically ask to do nearly any task for
them and it should just work.
>> Yeah. Like uh Yeah. Yeah. I mean like
all all white collar work is done on
computers and like you know code is how
computers work so it kind of make make
sense.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Like software is sort of the
physics of AI agents. Uh and so it
definitely behooves them to be good at
manipulating their own physics their own
world. Uh and I think that's also why
software development agents have moved
way faster than other fields because
they're also made of software. So this
the self-arning bootstrapping is is is
very clear. We're about to publish some
interesting work about how Droid
basically passed the threshold of what
we call like self-improving.
>> Wow. So, let's talk about something
which is um you're a pretty small team,
right? How many people are in the
company?
>> We're 40.
>> Okay. And um like you're competing
against like you know clock and curs and
these like super wellunded companies and
dude I'm like super impressed that you
guys are like number one on terminal
bench you know this might be a much
smaller team. So how how do you do it
man? Like how any any secrets or
>> No totally. I mean I think that there is
a funny thing of of like all the
resources in the world as we all know uh
cannot necessarily purchase a a product
experience that's that's fully crafted
for your ICP. Um I think that there's
two angles here that are important. Like
the first is that the cursor team, the
anthropic team, the OpenAI team, I mean
incredible. These are I we know we work
with them all the time. They're all
awesome. Like every time I've met all
these folks, they're total class. So One
thing is you have to hold two things in
your head like there is a huge
well-funded very smart group of people
you know also building in this space.
Um, but at the same time are I think
that there's just so much to be explored
in AI for software development that
effectively just opening Twitter,
reading a couple people's workflows,
you'll quickly realize the variance in
what a good AI software development
agent or a good workflow is so high that
there's just so much to build. And so
for us, there's two things that really
matter. The first is just a relentless
focus on customer and ICP. So there are
features in Droid that make no sense for
a solo developer. Uh things like the
enterprise hierarchal controls, some of
how OTEL works, a lot of like you can
actually run Droid in the most airgapped
environment like a you could run it in a
submarine if you wanted to as long as
you had a GPU. Uh I think that level of
control, flexibility, customization
doesn't really sell well to a individual
developer. However, I think this is what
has made us more capable in general is
that because we've built all these
things, we have gotten access to
customers that have incredibly difficult
and very sophisticated software problems
to solve. So, we get to basically hill
climb not only on public benchmarks and
in fact we actually don't really hill
climb on public benchmarks like our
performance on terminal bench is not
because of terminal bench. it's because
of a separate data set built of more
realistic enterprise customer data. Um,
and so that I think has been a huge boon
for us is basically being able to work
on much harder software problems. And if
you solve those, a lot of the they're
not necessarily simpler, but maybe more
straightforward problems like full stack
development, you know, uh, 0 to one,
etc. sort of come naturally.
>> Yeah. Like the harder software problems
is like what like refactoring and like
you know these gnarly legacy code bases,
right? It's like all the that
engineers don't want to do. Is that what
>> Exactly. Like like I I think that that
there is just so much crap involved in
software and no one no one wants to be
the guy or the or the girl like
refactoring a cobalt legacy codebase
that's like 15 years old. Everyone who's
touched it is either gone or, you know,
not working on it anymore. And droids
droids just do that stuff pretty well.
>> Yeah, dude. Because because like dude I
think the best part about you know Joy
and some of these other AI agents is
like it's very detail oriented in like
just reading and understanding the
codebase because if you onboard like a
new human developer it's going to take
them like a long time man to figure out
what the hell's going on with the code
base especially if it's like a mess you
know.
>> Yeah and and and I think that that's one
of the coolest things we've seen. So we
deployed there's a customer that we
deployed we went zero to 10,000 people
in like a couple months basically. Uh
and one of the ways that we did this was
just by enabling not just software
engineers but really everybody who
wanted access uh and saying to them look
like if you are someone who is anywhere
near the software process open this tool
up and just start asking it some
questions that you've been wondering
about the world that you operate in like
there's so many people who because it's
very costly time-wise to like learn
coding or learn big aspects of software
but their work is so consequential to
the delivery of software ops, product,
QA, uh DevOps, like uh you know, data
science. They sort of know how some of
the software engineering stuff works or
maybe they know pretty well. They just
haven't invested time in learning.
Droids just make this so much easier.
So, it does really feel like
democratizing access to what used to be
a very complex and hard to understand
topic. Uh yeah,
>> you can now just get it digested for for
pretty cheap. Yeah, I think enterprises
should just give everyone like access to
the codebase. Like maybe not maybe not
right access, but at least like read
access to to just figure out what the
hell's going on because then you can ask
a bunch of questions to join these other
agents instead of bothering other
people.
>> Yeah, I mean a bunch of companies are
going to pay a huge cost to design
decisions like we're not a monor repo or
we're limiting codebase access to only
these persona. Like this stuff is going
to not scale well. It won't age well
into the AI era. Uh, so it's it's a lot
to think about if you're a engineering
leader
>> and probably like a lot of what you
because you're focused on enterprise
which I totally think is the right thing
to do but like probably a lot of what
you're doing is just like educating
because like you know if if you're if
you're trying to sell joy to anthropic
or something but like that that makes
sense. They they don't understand what's
going on but like a lot of these
enterprises is like you know a centur
whatever they don't they don't know any
of the right you have to train them
you have to train them how the stuff
actually works.
>> Yeah. And and and that's that's that's a
big part of also when when you're
building a product for enterprise, I
think you have to be thinking about not
just does the product work and is the
user journey very clear, but also how
does a user become a power user like
what is what is the activation and then
what is the like the basically the
secondary activation that happens post
post I'm using the tool and now I'm
really using the tool and and for us
we've seen there's like a usage based
activation of like I'm sending messages
pretty frequently so I clearly like the
product. And then there's a
customization activation which is I've
uncovered what skills and hooks and MCP
and tools those power users in the
enterprise very quickly become
evangelists. They're sharing it with
everybody. They're so excited to use
Droid. They start bringing more and more
of their work into Droid. Uh and I think
that that's that's the most fun is
seeing enterprises that most would say
are like quote unquote legacy
>> doing cooler stuff than what you see on
Twitter. uh which is fun.
>> Yeah. It's kind of like the people using
cloud code to run their life but except
for enterprise, right? Like that.
>> Yeah. Exactly. And and and the
enterprise at the very least it's
actually like better suited for this
sort of stuff. Like it's still a huge
pain to connect your Gmail to cloud code
or to Droid. Uh but but you can actually
like pretty easily connect like Outlook
and uh and like Excel and all this other
stuff to Droid. So it's uh yeah it's a
it's it's a lot easier to operate your
like work OS from uh from Droid.
>> Awesome dude. So um so people are
excited about Droid and you know
building a product management skill and
like so where can people so so Droid is
free to use right? Like where where do
people go?
>> Yeah just go to factory.ai. We've got
the CLI link right there. Uh but if you
sign up we we can give you up to uh a
bunch of free free usage uh to to get
started. some really exciting things
depending on when this airs uh of free
usage that I think a lot of people are
going to be excited about. Um and then
we have a bunch of plans for all sorts
of options. Uh so really easy to get
started. Just one one line and you're
in.
>> All right, dude. Well, I mean I I have
thoughts about a bunch of VIP coding
companies out there, but I think you
guys like it all comes down to focus,
man. And and I'm like super impressed by
the progress that you've made. So yeah,
I I definitely highly encourage everyone
to give Jordan a try and and also you
have some really great talks out there.
So like should people find you on
Twitter or where can people find you?
>> Yeah, you can just uh it's enory eno
ree. Uh and you can you know see all see
all my my Twitter my Twitter escapades.
>> We got we gota speed read you got a
speed read thing with the Twitter API so
you can just read all the you can read
all the rage bait tweets.
>> Exactly. That's that's a great call that
just a daily dose of very fast rage.
>> Yeah. And they just become a very
demented person. But but anyway, yeah.
Cool, man. All right, dude. Stay in
touch, man. Yeah.
>> Yeah. Thanks so much. Bye.